Welcome back we've learned to a little bit about testing but how about testing our re-act component
or our re-act up our robo friends up.
If we take a look at our folder over here I have the robo friends PWI because it's now a progressive
Web app and based on what we've learned we might go to the actions folder Constans folder maybe there
reducers file folder I guess.
And because these are just simple functions we might know how to test them.
But the one thing we haven't really discussed is how do we test these functions that are her Riak components.
I mean how do we actually do that.
And there are ways that we can figure out to test this with the methods that we've learned so far.
But there's a great library that simplifies things for us and that is enzyme.
And this is a library by Air B and B.
That is pretty standard.
And the reac community if you want to test your components then you're most likely going to use enzyme
an enzyme is again a tool that allows us to say hey in our tests just render this car component and
enzyme is going to give us a ton of methods for us to test.
Hey did the div get Brender did the image get Brandur.
Did the name and email get rendered.
So in this video let's install enzyme and have a look at what it offers us.
Now they have great documentation here and you can see that based on our Riak version they have different
things that we need to install.
And since we're using react that is higher than 16 if we take a look at packaged Jaison
we see that we're using re-act sixteen point two.
You might be using a higher version of react but most likely you're going to be using a version that
is higher than this and that case they give us pretty good information of what to do and what we need
to install.
So we need to install the enzyme library as well as this enzyme adapter re-act 16.
So just a special adapter that we need for this newer version of react skyn do go ahead and copy this
and you see that we're doing dash dash save Dev because it's a death dependency.
All right.
We have enzyme installed with the enzyme adapter.
Now if you go through their documentation we need to do a quick set up for us to be able to actually
use enzyme.
And again this is because we're using a new version of react.
And I wanted to keep in mind that this isn't actually difficult when you see me have these special cases
of libraries and we need to do some sort of a setup.
Most of the time all these libraries have documentation for you to get started.
I mean their goal is for people to use them as much as possible so they're going to make it easy for
you to understand and set up with enzyme.
What we need to do is create something called a set up tests that just to set this up.
So in our source folder we can just say new file will co-lead set up tests.
J.S. and within here we're going to import something called configure from enzyme.
And again all of this can be found in their documentation so don't get intimidated by this.
I had no idea how to do this until I actually read their documentation just on their introduction page
I'll show you how to do this.
And then finally we also want to import something called an adapter.
And if I can't spell.
That's how you spell adapter from the enzyme
adapter re-act 16 library.
Now we also installed.
And then finally we just need one single line here and that is to say configure the adapter tab a new
adapter if you really want to know what this does.
Can go through their coding on get hub but just by looking at the name we will say that is just configuring
our test right.
So that's set up what can we do.
How can we actually test our components now with Enzyte
enzyme gives us mainly just three things that we can use.
Let me show you what they are.
One is something called Shallow the other Want something called Mount and then the third a render.
And these are functions that we can use from the ends library that we just used and from these we were
able to do something really really interesting with our components you see in an ideal world to do a
test.
We can render this whole thing and make sure that every turn.
So what we expected.
Like I said before to make sure that we're returning a div perhaps with these types of class names that
we're also returning another DB inside of it with name and email.
So just like a dom we need to figure out if it renders exactly what it needs and just by looking at
the names it looks like enzyme provides for us a way to render MT and shallow this component.
So what did these all mean.
And I'm going to give you a heads up.
Most likely 90 percent of the time you want to use shallow and shallow is what we're going to be using
in this course.
There are some cases that you might want to use mount and render but just keep in mind that with enzymes
we're pretty much just using this which makes it very very nice and simple.
The very first thing the one that we're using most What does shallow do well first off is to create
a test file here because well we're not going to import enzyme in our actual component.
So within the components file I'm just going to say new file card dog test ws.
And now let's import enzyme here.
A Zola's importing into our actual component.
So again we're going to import card from the
hard dodgiest via
And now let's just for fun see what happens if I do shallow
card or the card component and let's just console log this.
Now how do we actually run this test.
Well if we go to our packaged Jaison we have an installed jest but remember because we were using create
re-act up this comes built in in the Riak scripts it has all the stuff set up for us.
So it can simply run NPM test
and we get a bit of a narrow here with say that re-act is not defined.
That's because remember we're using GSX here so we need a way to Rejeb sex and if you remember with
any component we always import re-act from the re-act package.
All right.
And it says that our test suite must contain at least one test because we're not really testing anything.
But at the bottom here we see that we have a shallow wrapper of length 1.
So what does shallow do simply by running this syntax.
We're saying hey shallow render this card component and shallow rendering is useful because it just
renders the card component.
If the card component for some reason let's say had a component inside of it that is the Halo component
Well it's not going to render that as well.
It's just going to shallowly render just this component and it's useful because it constrains yourself
to testing one component at a time one unit as you might remember a unit test is something that just
tests one unit at a time one small piece at a time.
And this ensures that your tests aren't indirectly asserting on a behavior of a chawl component like
the halo component.
So that's why I'm a big fan of the shallow rendering an enzyme.
Ideally you want to test one thing at a time without affecting all the child components.
And this kips it keeps your tests nice and clean.
Now the cool thing with shallow is that we get a ton of methods that we can now use on this cart component
for example.
Now because we render this we can use our good old friend expect to say xpect
the shallow rendered car component and then we can say to equal to equal one and we'll just give it
a length property here and again we want to wrap this in our IT.
BLOCK expect to render
card component.
And now we can just put this inside let's save and there you go.
We have one test passing and this shows that all right the car component when we render it it's going
to actually render something to equal one.
I mean it's a silly test but that's nice.
We were able to just render nice and simple car component let me remove the hello from here.
Now what about these other two these other two things.
We're not going to go into too much because they have this specific use cases.
Like I said most of the time you want to use shallow and keep your tests nice and simple and contained
but mt does what's called a full DOM rendering it's ideal for use cases where you have components that
maybe interact with the DOM API.
So for some reason maybe the card component uses Daut query selector.
Or any of the dom API that we usually see.
Or maybe the car component has some sort of a life cycle method A react to life cycle method.
You want to test Sacha's component did mount.
Now one with the mount is that it requires a full DOM API to actually work and be available for us for
the mount to happen.
And this means that it has to run in an environment that at least looks like the browser environment.
And if you remember from our previous talk you might not always want to run your tests inside of a browser
because while it takes a bit of time.
So if you don't want to run your tests inside of a browser you might use something like a headless browser
or a Jasc done.
And it's recommended that with jazz dumb is used with Monk.
Keep that in mind.
MT I like shallow rendering does a full render and actually mounts the component on a dump just like
re-act us which means that tests can affect each other if they're all using the same dump.
But like I said it's very rare that you want to use MT because it can get complicated and then you want
to keep your tests as clean and contained as possible.
Finally the last one is the render and the render function as the name suggests it is used to render
Riak components but unlike to a real Dom it's rendered to a static a shemale so render returns something
very similar to what's shallow and Montross.
However the differences that render uses a library called Cheerio underneath the hood.
Think of it as an in-between shallow mount.
It doesn't actually need a full DOM API but it does render any of its core or any of the card children
underneath it if you need to test those.
All right.
So we have enzymes set up and we can test some of our components but there's still a little bit more
work we need to do for that one.
I'll see in the next one.